
This example shows how to set up time-dependent dose-response simulations and
generate reports from them.

The tddr report consists of one standard tab-separated file for each column in
each output file from your simulation.  (NOTE: only output files with the .dmp
extension are processed, so you can cause output files to be ignored by not
using the .dmp extension.)  So, if you had an output file "kinases.dmp" with a
column "Ste7", then a file "kinases--Ste7.tddr" will be generated with the
Ste7 columns from all the "kinases.dmp" files generated by all the
simulations, all arranged in order.  These .tddr files are also plotted in a
simple way.  All of the tddr report files appear in a director named "tddrs".

Currently, you can run a variation on only one parameter in a
moleculizer-input file.  But the scripts are written so that it should be
relatively easy to adapt them to work with independent variations on more than
one parameter.  (There is still another mode that we may need: multiple
simultaneous subsitutions of several parameters at once.  This is more
complicated.)

You can run the simulations immediately or in the batch queue.  If you run
them in the batch queue, this code doesn't try to determine when your jobs are
done.  Rather, there is one "make" target to setup and run the simulations in
the batch queue, and another to make the tddr report when they are done.  But
you have to monitor the batch jobs using the "atq" command to know when they
are done.

Begin by copying the example directory to another location in which to work.
It is best to start with a working moleculizer-input file, so that you
won't be debugging input file problems in the midst of your tddr.

To prepare your moleculizer-input file for variation, open it with xmloperator
as usual.  Change the attribute value you want to vary to the word VAR.

The file "values" is how you put in the variation you want to perform.
There are 3 styles:


1. Additive.  The values file should consist of one line that looks like this:

+ start-value step-value simulation-count

for example,

+ 100 25 4

would substitute the values 100, 125, 150, and 175 for VAR.


2. Multiplicative.  The values file should consist of one line that looks like
   this:

* start-value factor simulation count

for example

* 100 2 4

would substitute the values 100, 200, 400, and 800 for VAR.


3. Explicit. The values file should consist of one line that looks like this:

= value1 value2 value3 ...

for example

= 100 121 134 567

would substitue the explict values 100, 121, 134, and 567 for VAR.


To run all the simulations and generate the reports right now, you should cd
to your tddr directory and type "make".  Your simulations will run one at a
time, then the tddr files will be gnerated.

To run the simulations in the batch queue, you should cd to your tddr
directory and type "make sims-batch".  Then you monitor the simulation jobs in
the queue with "atq".  When they are done, type "make report" in your tddr
directory to generate the report files.
